Introduction and Context

The purpose of this system is to integrate software and hardware technology into a restaurant to facilitate information sharing between all restaurant staff and allow customers to order food, pay, and directly communicate with the wait staff.  

	Currently customers order food directly from their wait staff.  The wait staff must write down a customers order and produce a copy for the kitchen to in turn prepare the food.   This process is time consuming and prone to errors.  The wait staff must also take care of all customers needs, including being aware of refills, handling payments, and other miscellaneous needs of each customer.
	
The proposed system will consist of 4 components, a customer component, wait staff component, kitchen component, and a component for the manager.  The 4 components will enable information sharing of customer orders, specific customer needs, facilitate and track payments, allow management to monitor wait staff performance and customer transactions, and improve customer service and satisfaction.


2.	  Users and Their Goals

The users of this system are restaurant customers and all staff of a restaurant including waiters, kitchen staff, and managers.  They are not required to have more than a minimal understanding of computers.  The goal is to integrate hardware and software into a restaurant to enable direct involvement of the customers in ordering, communicating, and paying for food along with improving the flow of information between restaurant staff and recording transactions.    
•	Customer is able to view the menu, select items from the menu and order them, leave comments for the wait and kitchen staff, request refill and help services, and make payments on their order.
•	Wait staff is able to view the menu, select items from the menu and order them, leave comments for the kitchen staff, facilitate payments for customers, apply coupons, and military discounts, and reset the customer component for each table.
•	Kitchen staff is able to view orders in chronological order and mark orders as ready for delivery.
•	Managers are able to view sales reports and the number of each item sold, allocate tips, and view what items each waiter has comped.

3.	Functional Requirements
3.1  The customer component of the system will allow customers to view the restaurants menu.
3.1.1 The customer can select menu items to add to an order.
3.1.2  The customer can give comments to the waiting staff and kitchen staff  in a text box at the bottom of the order before submitting it. 
3.1.3  The customer can place an order and will receive confirmation when successfully placed.
3.1.4  After the order is placed the customer is directed to a game where the user has a 1/5 chance of displaying the user won a free dessert.
3.1.5  The customer may request a drink specific refill through a button that is available on every screen. 
3.1.6  The customer may request help through a button that is available on every screen. 
3.1.7  The customer component will have 2 open source games available for customers to play.
3.1.8  The can pay directly by credit card.
3.1.9  The customer can split a check up to 4 ways by item.
3.1.10  The customer can choose between printing a receipt and having it emailed to them.

3.2  The wait staff component must be logged into by entering a username and password by each a waiter at the beginning of his or her shift.
3.2.1  The wait staff can view the restaurants menu.
3.2.2  Wait staff can select menu items to add to an order.
3.2.3  The wait staff can comp menu items by selecting the menu item in the order and selecting the comp button.
3.2.4  The wait staff component will keep records of comped items including data on the name of the item and its price.
3.2.5  The wait staff can write comments for an order in a text box at the bottom of the order before submitting it.
3.2.6  The wait staff can place an order and will receive confirmation when successfully placed.
3.2.7  The wait staff component will display the status of the order: order placed, preparing, or ready.
3.2.8  The wait staff component will display an alert when a customer’s food is ready to be delivered.
3.2.9  The system will charge $0.00 for one kids meal ordered with every adult entrée on Sundays.  
3.2.10  The wait staff component will show the payment status for an order: pending or complete.
3.2.11  The wait staff can make payments using cash or a customers card for the order.
3.2.12  The wait staff can enter coupons for a customers order on the customers order page with a button: 20% off and 1 free entree.
3.2.13  The wait staff can apply a military discount of 15% on the order page of the customer. 
3.2.14  The wait staff can split a check up to 4 ways by item.
3.2.15  The wait staff component keeps records on each waiter including the information of what tables they served, sales report, transactions, and tips.
3.2.16  The wait staff can reset a tables customer component for new guests to be seated at the table.
	
3.3  The kitchen component will display orders in chronological order.
3.3.1  The kitchen staff can mark orders as ready.
4.4  The manager component must be logged into through a username and password by a manager to be used.
4.4.1  The manager can display a sales reports and a report of the  number of each item sold and the total sales of each server.
		4.4.2  The manager can allocate tips to each server.
		4.4.3  The manager component stores transaction ids.
		4.4.4  The manager can display comped items by waiters.


4.	  Non-functional Requirements
4.1  The system will run on Mac OS.
4.2  The system must have a private network to function.  




5.	Glossary

Comped Items:  Items that the wait staff will not charge the customer for.

Component:  Portion of software that drives one of the 4 programs required in the system.

Customer:  Patrons who come to the restaurant and order food. 

Database:  Information management system that stores users data.

Kitchen:  People who are employed at the restaurant to cook and prepare food.

Logged In:  The system knows who is operating a component of the system and can then record information on them and their customers during the users shift.

Manager:  People who are employed at the restaurant to oversee the wait staff and kitchen along with managing sales.

Menu Items: consisting of 5 appetizers, 5 entrees, 5 deserts, 5 kids meals, and 5 drinks.

Network:  A system that connects multiple devices together. 

Open Source:  Software whose source code is created to be free and may be distributed and used without restrictions.

Order: Food/drink request by a customer that the wait staff documents for later compensation.

Payments:  Some sort of monetary compensation for a good or service.

Sales Report:  A report tracking the value of products and returns as sales are made to customers.

Shift:  Set time in which an employee works each day.

System:  Compilation of multiple components that function together to accomplish predetermined tasks.

Transactions:  An exchange of money for some service and/or an item.

Wait Staff:  People who are employed at the restaurant to serve customers.








Requirements Document



Michael Ouellette 
Richard Miles
Ryan Gibeault
Manny Jandres

